CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT, 2019
[Act No. 35 of 2019]

Section 2(7). Definition of Consumer.
"Consumer" means any person who buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose; or hires or avails of any service for a consideration.

Section 2(47). Unfair Trade Practice.
"Unfair trade practice" means a trade practice which, for the purpose of promoting the sale, use or supply of any goods or for the provision of any service, adopts any unfair method or unfair or deceptive practice including making false or misleading representation regarding standard, quality, quantity, grade, composition, style or model of goods or services.

Section 10. Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA).
The Central Government shall, by notification, establish with effect from such date as may be specified therein, a Central Authority to be known as the Central Consumer Protection Authority to regulate matters relating to violation of rights of consumers, unfair trade practices and false or misleading advertisements which are prejudicial to the interests of public and consumers and to promote, protect and enforce the rights of consumers as a class.

Section 34. Jurisdiction of District Commission.
Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the District Commission shall have jurisdiction to entertain complaints where the value of the goods or services paid as consideration does not exceed fifty lakh rupees. A complaint shall be instituted in a District Commission within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the complainant resides or personally works for gain, or where the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises.

Section 82. Product Liability Action.
A product liability action may be brought by a complainant against a product manufacturer or a product service provider or a product seller, for any harm caused to him on account of a defective product.

Section 83. Liability of Product Manufacturer.
A product manufacturer shall be liable in a product liability action, if the product contains a manufacturing defect, or is defective in design, or there is a deviation from manufacturing specifications, or the product does not conform to the express warranty, or the product fails to contain adequate instructions of correct use to prevent any harm or any warning regarding improper or incorrect use.

Section 94. Prevention of unfair trade practice in e-commerce.
The Central Government may, for the purposes of preventing unfair trade practices in e-commerce, direct selling and also to protect the interest and rights of consumers, prescribe such measures in the manner as may be prescribed.
