INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACT, 2000
[Act No. 21 of 2000]

Section 43. Penalty and compensation for damage to computer, computer system, etc.
If any person without permission of the owner or any other person who is incharge of a computer, computer system or computer network accesses or secures access to such computer, computer system or computer network; downloads, copies or extracts any data, computer database or information; introduces or causes to be introduced any computer contaminant or computer virus into any computer; damages or causes to be damaged any computer, computer system or computer network, he shall be liable to pay damages by way of compensation to the person so affected.

Section 43A. Compensation for failure to protect data.
Where a body corporate, possessing, dealing or handling any sensitive personal data or information in a computer resource which it owns, controls or operates, is negligent in implementing and maintaining reasonable security practices and procedures and thereby causes wrongful loss or wrongful gain to any person, such body corporate shall be liable to pay damages by way of compensation to the person so affected.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, "body corporate" means any company and includes a firm, sole proprietorship or other association of individuals engaged in commercial or professional activities. "Reasonable security practices and procedures" means security practices and procedures designed to protect such information from unauthorised access, damage, use, modification, disclosure or impairment.

Section 66. Computer related offences.
If any person, dishonestly or fraudulently, does any act referred to in section 43, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine which may extend to five lakh rupees or with both.

Section 66C. Punishment for identity theft.
Whoever, dishonestly or fraudulently by makes use of the electronic signature, password or any other unique identification feature of any other person, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine which may extend to one lakh rupees.

Section 66D. Punishment for cheating by personation by using computer resource.
Whoever, by means of any communication device or computer resource cheats by personation, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine which may extend to one lakh rupees.

Section 66E. Punishment for violation of privacy.
Whoever, intentionally or knowingly captures, publishes or transmits the image of a private area of any person without his or her consent, under circumstances violating the privacy of that person, shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to three years or with fine not exceeding two lakh rupees, or with both.

Section 67. Punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form.
Whoever publishes or transmits or causes to be published or transmitted in the electronic form, any material which is lascivious or appeals to the prurient interest or if its effect is such as to tend to deprave and corrupt persons who are likely, having regard to all relevant circumstances, to read, see or hear the matter contained or embodied in it, shall be punished on first conviction with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years and with fine which may extend to five lakh rupees.

Section 72A. Punishment for disclosure of information in breach of lawful contract.
Save as otherwise provided in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, any person including an intermediary who, while providing services under the terms of lawful contract, has secured access to any material containing personal information about another person, with the intent to cause or knowing that he is likely to cause wrongful loss or wrongful gain discloses, without the consent of the person concerned, or in breach of a lawful contract, such material, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine which may extend to five lakh rupees, or with both.
